## Conclusion

> No freemen shall be taken or imprisoned or disseised or exiled or in any way destroyed, nor will we go upon him nor send upon him, except by the lawful judgment of his peers or by the law of the land.

**-Article 39, Magna Carta \(1215\)**

> Whoever controls the courts controls the state.

**-Aristotle**

The internet and associated technologies have undeniably changed the way that humans communicate and interact. As a result we have witnessed the rapid digitization, decentralization, and distribution of myriad services and tools we would, only ten years ago, have declared to exist steadfastly in the "real world". These technologies have fundamentally alternated the way that humans communicate. With this transition we have seen the rise of new problems, and new solutions. Among those solutions we find blockchain technology, which gives us a simple but fundamentally different way of handling transactions between humans. And on the back of this fundamental change we now find ourselves with a tool: **the smart contract**.

In the realm of "Silicon Valley," and tech innovation, there is a popular notion of "disruption" typified by the idea of tearing down and replacing previous institutions. Disruption carries with it the notion that these institutions, built on the "old" way of doing things, must make way for better solutions. Naturally, this has, thus far, been the tone of the conversation about distributed financial systems, blockchain, Bitcoin and smart contracts. But there are some systems of such great importance, which are important on such an individual level, that every successive "disruption" has merely refined their application. From monarchies, to oligarchies, to the republic, and the democracy. Through centuries of decentralization in systems of government. From English common law to modern systems of judicial resolution and arbitration, the idea articulated in the Magna Carta that "lawful judgement" of one's "peers" is the only way to fairly and peacefully resolve a dispute is not a notion to be "disrupted," but a notion to be refined and incorporated anew in any system of governance which proposes to facilitate human cooperation.

Smart contracts and blockchain technologies evolve the way that transactions and agreements take place between people. Further they hold global promise to allow secure transactions, and enforceable agreements among a class of citizen to which such tools were previous unavailable. But smart contracts will never truly take hold if they do not arrive at the door of the average person bearing an equally evolved system of fair enforcement and dispute resolution. The innovation behind the first legally binding contract was not simply the idea of an agreement put on paper, but an agreement made enforceable "by the law of the land." The innovation behind the smart contract further refines the ability of an increasing number of people to access this sort of agreement, but we must realize that these contracts still work in service of humans, and must thus adhere to notions of justice that have so far provided for the scale of cooperation and coordination to which we bear witness today.

Any tool working in service of human cooperation, and for blockchain-based technologies and smart contracts to truly take hold, we must acknowledge this basic fact: **disputes will happen, **software will have bugs, humans will disagree, and humans will misunderstand, often through no fault of their own. When these disputes occur centuries of refinement, study, and application have shown that the only fair means of resolution is by a jury of one's peers.

It is the mission of the Juris Foundation, and the goal of the continuing development of the Juris Protocol, to create a decentralized and distributed justice system; a justice system able to provide fair dispute resolution at the scale and accessibility of the Internet. For, it is only on the back of such a system of fair dispute resolution that the promise of blockchain technology to bring about global democracy can be realized.

