#JurisCoin
The Juris Protocol will use a proprietary blockchain based token (JRS) to incentivize developers and Jurists to be involved and improve the system. The use of this "tokenization" of resources allows us to provide the Protocol as an open source project. But with the boom of ICOs and the "gold rush" of tokenized projects it is worth addressing the relevance of JRS in detail.
### Compatibility
As a Judicial Protocol, and a Judicial Oracle the goal of Juris is to establish a consistency of justice and fair dispute resolution across any and all smart contract, or decentralized agreement based systems that may come in the future. To make this happen, we will need to create an incentive system that is, in essence, portable. The ability to include the Juris CDK in an _any_ smart contract will be made more complex by orders of magnitude by the need to convert in and out of native currencies with every port.
### Affordability
Access to fair dispute resolution is too important to fluctuate wildly at the whim of a volatile market. A sudden increase in BTC or ETH price cannot create a situation where the pursuit of justice is affordable one day, and too expensive the next. The creation of an economy of JRS to support the protocol will allow the foundation greater control over monetary policy. As the blockchain community has seen most recently with Bitcoin, the global cryptocurrency market is massively volatile. Using our own token will allows us to avoid usability and access issues potentially created by this volatility. Additionally, creation of a proprietary economy will allow the foundation to employ an more diverse set of economic incentives and controls to cushion against cryptocurrency market volatility.
### Jurist Selection & Governance
JRS is not only an incentive mechanism, but also a fundament part of the system itself. Initial invitations to take part in SNAP judgements as a Jurist are open to all JRS holders worldwide. This ensures a wide Jurist pool, and the involvement of only those users with a stake in the protocol. Additionally this same staking function will be relevant as foundation governance evolves to a "proof of stake" model for community input on protocol development and evolution. [More in the "Governance" section.](/governance.md) 
### Clarity
In the context of justice and dispute resolution clarity is important. The ability to quickly recognize that a contract is or isn't protected by the Juris Protocol is vital to its useability. If the CDK is included, and there is JRS attached to the contract, then Juris is active, and the smart contract is protected. If there is no JRS, the CDK is not active. In this case the use of native tokens would create a potentially confusing need to segregate currency involved as part of the transaction from currency set aside for Juris CDK attachment. This lack of clarity could result not only in user, or contract code mishaps, but could result in legal confusion as to whether or not the CDK arbitration clause was ultimately agreed upon by both parties. 
