## Real World Juris Use Cases

### Ziggy Stardust

Ziggy plays guitar, he’s an independent singer and songwriter who puts out music along with his band The Spiders from Mars. He wants to sell his tunes, but he’s sick of dealing with iTunes and the streaming options. He only makes 30% of the purchase price there. He thought about selling his music direct, and taking payments through PayPal, but those transaction fees are pretty high as well. To compete he needs to offer his tracks at $.99, $1.50 max, and he’s losing $.30-.50 of that on each transaction. But Ziggy has been watching the evolution of blockchain tech, he thinks he can do even better. He finds a service built on Ethereum called Ujo[^1] that helps him set up a store based off Ethereum smart contracts. The contract sends an attached Mp3 file directly back to any anyone that sends in $1 worth of Ether. Easy, and he gets to keep way more of that dollar than he would have with any alternative. Brilliant!

Ziggy drops his first single using his new smart contract system. He teases the track on Twitter and his fans are excited. David, a huge fan, immediately sends in his ETH, and he gets the mp3 he expected, but when he listens he finds out the file is nothing but static. This also happened to a thousand other fans. It seems the file Ziggy uploaded was corrupted on export or delivery. Luckily Ujo had incorporated the Juris CDK. The company hasn't collected any money yet, it’s in a CDK created holding wallet for the contracted two days clearance before they pass it to Ziggy. On David’s receipt he has a button that says “Request Refund or Report Problem.” He hits it, and fills out the details on the problem with his mp3 file.

The platform operators and Ziggy get a notification right away that the smart contract outcome has been flagged, and the contract \(and funds\) are frozen. On their Juris Dashboard they can see that 800 other flags have come in for this issue. Ziggy immediately checks the file and sees what happened, this is an obvious screw up, they’ll need to make good. Ziggy exported the wrong track in his recording session, and Ujo didn’t catch it. Whoops, but accidents happen, good thing there was a backup system.

Ziggy outputs the right track, and lets the service know, they send the fixed Mp3 file to David and all of the other fans who have placed an order so far. David gets a ping that Ujo and Ziggy have marked the dispute as resolved, he agrees so he marks the conflict as resolved via the Juris Dashboard as well. The funds are unlocked, and the contract is able to run. In 2 days Ziggy’s ETH will show up on time. In that time the service has fixed the smart contract for Ziggy’s track so this won’t happen to the next buyer. As buzz grows 50,000 more tracks are sold in the next day, all smooth transactions. The CDK just saved Ziggy, Ujo, and thousands of fans a headache -- and possibly some lawsuits.

### 100k Twitter Followers?

Alfred, an aspiring London comedian, is looking to drastically grow his small presence on Twitter to reach new audiences. He currently has around 20k followers and dreams of hitting the low six figures. On CoinLancer[^2], a popular Ethereum-based freelancing marketplace, he finds Barbara: a self-proclaimed social media guru in Chicago. Barbera advertises that for 4 Ether she can grow anyone's Twitter follower count by 100k followers within 30 days. Alfred's sold: the price per follower sounds much better than any other offer he's seen. CoinLancer’s system helps he and Barbara enter into a smart contract with one another, set to programmatically test Alfred's follower count in 30 days.

30 days later, Alfred's follower count is at 125k - and rising. The test clause of the smart contract has become active, and confirms that his Follower count has surpassed the success criteria to pay out to Barbara.

To Alfred's horror, 3 days later, he receives an email from Twitter notifying him that 80k of Alfred's 125k Followers were deactivated. His Follower count now falls drastically short of Barbara's promise. As far as he's concerned, this isn't what he paid for. He contacts Barbara. As far as she's concerned, she's fulfilled the contract as it was written and has rendered her services as agreed: she got him his 100k followers.

Relieved that CoinLancer suggested he include Juris CDK in the smart contract, Alfred activates the adjudication function in his Juris dashboard. All the Ether in the contract is temporarily frozen, and a request is sent to Juris to begin arbitration. He and Barbara have already talked about their disagreement, and they're getting nowhere, so Alfred decides to escalate to a SNAP Judgement.

Worldwide, holders of JRS receive notification of a new contract in need of arbitration. As they enter their online Juris dashboard and examine the ticket, they're presented with a brief synopsis of case details provided by Alfred and Barbara, as well as a copy of the smart contract in question. Deng, a JRS holder in Singapore, reviews the initial case brief. He's unfamiliar with bot protocols and Twitter, and he's not confident that he will be able to contribute to the discussion, this case isn't for him, he decides. But Juan, a social media manager in Acapulco, has dealt with this before - personally. He - and thousands of other token holders - accept the ticket. He reviews the case and contract, and swiftly casts his first vote. Within the day, thousands of votes have been cast worldwide, each voter tasked with the same mission: render the mediation decision NOW that you think would be rendered by an arbiter in a second round of binding arbitration. **&lt;-- This Paragraph doesn't exactly match new SNAP system, does it?**

Alfred awakes the next day and - to his delight - the Juris arbiters have rendered a judgement. His dashboard reports back that 64% of the arbiters in the top 25% of reputation score sided with him, 73% of the top 10% of arbiters, and 92% of the top 1% of arbiters. As a token holder - and occasional arbiter himself - he knows that's a very positive outcome for him. He also knows Barbara will see the same.

He submits to assent to the favorable opinion cast by the Juris arbiters. If Barbara assents also, the case will be marked resolved and he'll be refunded his Ether. He and Barbara can part ways. He knows that if she doesn't, a second round of arbitration, this time - binding - will happen. Seeing thousands of votes rendered in Alfred's favor, Barbara concedes and assents to the decision. The Ether tied up in the contract is returned to Alfred, and the JRS used to power the arbitration function in the contract is divided equally amongst all the arbiters who cast their vote in favor of Alfred.

## Crowdfunding \(Equity or Otherwise\)

By now the general public is aware of the idea of crowdfunding, and US law has caught up to the extent that regulations have been rolled out allowing a restricted version of crowdfunding in exchange for equity. Nearly all securities contracts use an arbitration clause, or agreement. We already looked at how things worked with Ziggy, above. It isn't difficult to extrapolate from the scenario to see the implications for a Kickstart like platform, built via blockchain to maximize efficiency. But because ICOs are all the rage, lets take a look at that type of crowdfunding.

The Simple Agreement for Future Tokens \(SAFT\) has quickly become a popular funding mechanism for pre-sale Token Generation Events. Sometimes they're also called Initial Coin Offerings, or ICOs. They are a tool for the early sale of the tokens that will be generated and used by technology protocols for which funding is needed. They require a certain degree of interpersonal trust between founders and investors, as they are essentially a promise to produce, and deliver something at a future date. But what if you want to fund a Cambodian team with a promising idea, and you can't do a background check? What about an anonymous distributed team? Because of this trust component the SAFT is a less effective device for unproven teams or inexperienced investors. Luckily the system is already primed for a trust-less solution, a SAFT built via smart contract, a SCAFT: Smart Contract for Future Tokens.

But like we've already covered, even smart contracts can't always be perfect. Let's take a look:

Ten investors would each like to pre-purchase 10,000 ETH of AwesomeCoin. Each puts their ETH in to a smart contract which has the following expected behavior: It will release .5% of its contents every day until it receives \[the correct number of tokens\] from \[specific wallet address\] at which point it will dump all of the remaining funds into the company's account.

Due to a technical problem while preparing for the token generation, the AwesomeCoin developers lose access to \[specific wallet address\]. This means the smart contracts will never trigger as specified in their code. Without intervention, AwesomeCoin will never receive the full balance of their funds, and the investors will never receive their tokens. AwesomeCoin does not want to disrupt their timeline, so they push ahead, issue the tokens and distribute tokens manually from their new address, as promised, to the investors. Using the Juris self mediation tools, the developers propose that the money be transferred to their account even through the technical terms of the smart contract were not satisfied. Using the same tools, seven of the investor's signal their assent; the developers signal their assent, and the transfer executes. Two of the investors invoke the SCAFT’s cancellation terms. Those contracts are frozen, and all of the money left in those accounts is moved into a CDK generated holding account. The parties are unable to talk it out, and they trigger a SNAP Judgement, after which point one of the investors signals their willingness to release funds. Both parties crypto-sign a judgement. The funds are released and those jurists who voted inline with the signed judgement, get a share of the Juris denominated mediation fee and an increase in their rep-score.

The remaining investors choose to escalate the case further. This signals Juris to begin formation of a panel. The smart contract doesn’t detail what kind of mediation they would like, so the default is used. From the pool of Jurists who are marked as active at the “high” level, three are selected at random \(weighted for expertise\). This panel sits for up to seven days to hear arguments and examine evidence. At the end of that period, the judges find 2-to-1 for the entrepreneurs. Using their dispute mediation tools, without the consent of the investor, they transfer the remaining funds to the investor. The panel members split the mediation fee rate each other's performance \(those ratings are used to update their rep scores\). **&lt;-- Need to reword this to align with current panel structure**

Any investors or entrepreneurs reading this exchange probably found it extremely unpleasant to read. But imagine if these parties hadn’t had access to fast, just mediation.

[^1]:[https://ujomusic.com/](https://ujomusic.com/)

[^2]:[https://www.coinlancer.io/](https://www.coinlancer.io/)

