## SCAFT

Nearly all securities contracts use an arbitration clause, or agreement.

The Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (SAFT) has quickly become a popular funding mechanism for pre-sale Token Generation Events. They are a tool for the early sale of the tokens that will be generated and used by technology protocols for which funding is needed. They require a certain degree of interpersonal trust between founders and investors, as they are essentially a promise to produce, and deliver something at a future date. But what if you want to fund a Cambodian team with a promising idea? Or an anonymous distributed team? Because of this trust component the SAFT is a less effective device for unproven teams or inexperienced investors. Luckily the system is already primed for a trust-less solution, a Smart Contract for Future Tokens.

But this SCaFT could still be too rigid for the fast changing and fuzzy world of startups and crypto-technology. Let’s see why:


Three investors would each like to pre-purchase 10K ETH of AwesomeCoin at a 20% discount. Each puts 10K ETH in to a smart contract which has the following expected behavior: It will release .5% of its contents every day until it receives [the correct number of tokens] from [specific wallet address] at which point it will dump all of the remaining funds into the company's account. 

Due to a technical problem while preparing for the TGE, the AwesomeCoin developers lose access to [specific wallet address]. This means the smart contracts will never trigger as specified in their code. Without intervention, AwesomeCoin will never receive the full balance of their funds, and the investors will never receive their tokens. AwesomeCoin does not want to disrupt their TGE timeline, so they push ahead, have the TGE and distribute tokens manually from their new address, as promised, to the 3 investors. Using the Juris self mediation tools, the developers propose that the money be transferred to their account even through the technical terms of the SC were not satisfied. Using the same tools, 8 of the investor's signal their assent; the developers signal their assent, and the transfer executes. Two of the investors invoke the SCAFT’s cancellation terms. All of the money left in the account is moved into a 72 hour escrow account. Given the implementation of the SC, they don’t see any reason to leave the money in the contract. The developers unilaterally tigger the Juris mediation clause. That freezes the escrow account and creates a ‘summary plebiscite’. Any jurist in good standing can vote for 24 hours. At the end of that period, the breakdown is as follows: 

At that point one of the invests signals their willingness to release funds. Both parties crypto-sign a judgement. The funds are released and those jurists who voted inline with the signed judgement, get a share of the Juris denominated mediation fee and an increase in their rep-score.

Investor #3 signals that they do not intend to assent to the judgement. This signals the formation of a panel. The smart contract doesn’t detail what kind of mediation they would like, so the default is used. From the pool of Jurists who are marked as active at the “high” level, three are selected at random (weighted for expertise). This panel sits for up to seven days to hear arguments and examine evidence. At the end of that period, the judges find 2-to-1 for the entrepreneurs. Using their dispute mediation tools, without the consent of the investor, they transfer the remaining funds to the investor. The panel members split the mediation fee rate each other's performance (those ratingings are used to update their rep scores). 

Any investors or entrepreneurs reading this exchange probably found it extremely unpleasant to read. But imagine if these parties hadn’t had access to fast, just mediation.